“We once again express our deepest condolences to the families and the government of India and Morocco. And we will not leave any stone unturned to get to the bottom of it, to the investigation. This was clearly a hostile act against our troops. This may be a war crime,” he said.

Diagne added that the mortal remains of the fallen peacekeepers have been transferred now to the north eastern city of Beni and “we’re looking at arrangements for these remains to go back quickly to their families in India and Morocco”.

As of November 2021, India was the second highest military contributor to MONUSCO with 1888 troops and the fifth highest police contributor with 139 personnel. The mission has a total of over 17,700 personnel.

“The members of the Security Council called for calm and dialogue in order to resolve the current tensions and to ensure protection of civilians. They encouraged further efforts of the Congolese Government to restore law and order as well as to conduct investigations into the underlying causes of the current tensions and to ensure accountability,” the press statement said.

The members of the Security Council also stressed the importance of MONUSCO having the necessary capacities to fulfil its mandate and promote, including by taking additional measures as appropriate, the safety and security of the United Nations peacekeepers and its operations, pursuant to relevant Security Council resolutions.

They underscored that the primary responsibility for the safety and security of United Nations personnel and assets rests with host states and highlighted the importance of engagements and continued communications between MONUSCO and the Congolese government in this regard, including the efforts to proactively enhance the understanding of MONUSCO’s mandate among the local population, counter disinformation and misinformation and garner trust of the local population.

The Council members called on all parties to cooperate fully with MONUSCO and to remain committed to the full and objective implementation of the Mission’s mandate and under the Status of Forces Agreement with MONUSCO.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their strong commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

They reiterated their full support to the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Bintou Keita, and for the stabilising action of MONUSCO, in line with the basic principles of peacekeeping, including consent of the parties, and its mandate and expressed their deep appreciation to MONUSCO’s troop- and police-contributing countries.